README.md, before:

# nakal's Xmonad (plus desktop) configuration

![Desktop screenshot](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipPEwAfucM_1Kr_APAaq6LpHls_T-e_OBHCHp-lv_mDsm0xq-Y-wthEgqxDW1PHuWA/photo/AF1QipPQCsV7XSN5JErwVe25DxTjHRGMyJGH5KEUOtp9?key=UlJRYmsyYy1LbVpDWVFFR0R1U3liUDVYMm9JRzhn)

[Xmonad](http://xmonad.org/) is a minimalistic tiled window manager for Xorg.

Please be aware that this repository does not just host an Xmonad
configuration, but also some additional goodies for a usable desktop.

Included fine tuning has been done for (e.g.):

* X settings:
	* Xorg Xdefaults and fonts
	* GTK+ 2 & 3
	* session management
	* dialogs for
		* SSH
		* rdesktop
		* VirtualBox
* login manager:
	* slim
* xmobar:
	* desktop bar
	* sysinfo bar

## Small warning

The setup script used here will modify configurations and startup files
in your home directory. Please be aware of this fact!

I tried my best to avoid dangerous operations during the setup and operation
phases (see below), but I cannot tell for sure if there are systems or hosts
that can be damaged by the actions executed there.

When you start `setup.sh`, it will perform many safety checks not to destroy
important data.

## Installation instructions

For those who read the warnings above, proceed with these steps:

0. **Make a backup of your $HOME** (optional, but you never know!)
1. Clone the project.
2. Move the project files to `~/.xmonad`.
3. When you have FreeBSD, you can directly execute the script
   `~/.xmonad/setup.sh`. If not you will need
   to check the dependencies by yourself and comment out the
   `pkg info` check at the beginning of the script.
4. Add this line (or similar) to your `sudo` configuration: `myuser ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /sbin/shutdown`.
5. Optional: install the keyboard layout.

## Host-specific fine tuning

You can use the directory `~/.xmonad/conf` to make fine tuning for hosts.
Xmonad will look for a configuration there that is named
`~/.xmonad/conf/HOSTNAME.hs`.

### Workspaces and Layouts

The workspaces mentioned here have all 3 letters to keep the `xmobar` workspace
bar short. They are also merged with their number as prefix when shown in the
dock.  You can use the names which are already defined to specify a certain
workspace layout.

The `com` layout is best used with `pidgin` and `claws-mail`. `gfx` is
adjusted for `gimp` other applications like `darktable` will be simply shown
full-screen there. Take a look at the layout definitions and don't forget
to modify them, especially when changing their names.

### Example

This configuration will make 9 desktops with the given names. It will take
`em0` as the interface to watch network load and on startup it will also
start firefox and claws-mail. It will also set the wallpaper with the
given arguments (just so you can see how to pass arguments).

```
HostConfiguration {
	locale = "de",
        workspaceNames = [ "web","com","dev","gfx","ofc","","","",""],
        terminal = "urxvt",
        netInterfaceName = "em0",
        autostartPrograms = [
		("hsetroot",["-fill","~/.wallpapers/liquid-1600x1200.jpg"]),
                ("firefox",[]),
                ("claws-mail",[])
                ]
        }
```

**Be careful here,** this has to be a valid Haskell record syntax (instance of
Read/Show) or it will be safely skipped and the defaults will be used.

#### Default host-specific configuration

It looks like this:
```
defaultHostConfiguration = HostConfiguration {
	locale = "en",
        workspaceNames = ["web","com","dev","gfx","ofc","","","",""],
        terminal = "urxvt",
        netInterfaceName = "re0",
        autostartPrograms = []
        }
```

You don't need to make a file for this, it is implied, if nothing has been
found or if an error reading your configuration occurs.

## Features and gotchas

The configuration is fully managed in [git](http://git-scm.com).

All the configurations included are softlinks. It means that you can update
them and you implicitly update the checked out project. This also implies
that it might be a good idea to make yourself a fork of this project. But
you can also merge in changes from my repository, but don't complain, if
something breaks for you. You should consider this project my private
playground.

## German hacker's keyboard layout

Because the layout file is very concise, I'll explain shortly what hides
inside. You can decide then, whether you like it or not.

**It is only for German keyboards!**

Here the features:

* US QWERTY setting (basically *it is* a US keyboard then)
* rich keyboard variant with many default key combos
	that exist in US (international) layouts
* Capslock and Escape swap (for vim)
* 'at' and 'euro' symbols back at their place
* Umlauts are accessible through *AltGr* plus the key where they are on the
	German keyboard. *Shift* will make them caps.
* Compose key on the "<>|" key next to left shift.
* `dead_greek` keyboard symbol on *AltGr*+g and *AltGr*+Shift+m
	to enable greek alphabet with default compositions
* some important dead keys have been swapped with their higher level siblings
	(e.g. `asciicircum`, `asciitilde`, `grave`)
* `dead_acute` on level 4 key `q` (think: "aQute")
* `dead_diaeresis` and `degree` on level 3 & 4 key `*`
* missing french quotation marks (because of umlauts) can be all composed

Commit message:

Dock improvements
* larger fonts
* separators
* color scheme updates

README.md, after:

# nakal's Xmonad (plus desktop) configuration

![Desktop screenshot](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipPEwAfucM_1Kr_APAaq6LpHls_T-e_OBHCHp-lv_mDsm0xq-Y-wthEgqxDW1PHuWA/photo/AF1QipPQCsV7XSN5JErwVe25DxTjHRGMyJGH5KEUOtp9?key=UlJRYmsyYy1LbVpDWVFFR0R1U3liUDVYMm9JRzhn)

[Xmonad](http://xmonad.org/) is a minimalistic tiled window manager for Xorg.

Please be aware that this repository does not just host an Xmonad
configuration, but also some additional goodies for a usable desktop.

Included fine tuning has been done for (e.g.):

* X settings:
	* Xorg Xdefaults and fonts
	* GTK+ 2 & 3
	* session management
	* dialogs for
		* SSH
		* rdesktop
		* VirtualBox
* login manager:
	* slim
* xmobar:
	* desktop bar
	* sysinfo bar

## Small warning

The setup script used here will modify configurations and startup files
in your home directory. Please be aware of this fact!

I tried my best to avoid dangerous operations during the setup and operation
phases (see below), but I cannot tell for sure if there are systems or hosts
that can be damaged by the actions executed there.

When you start `setup.sh`, it will perform many safety checks not to destroy
important data.

## Prerequisites

`setup.sh` will check for required fonts and will ask you to install
[FontAwesome](http://fontawesome.io/). If your distribution does not offer the
font (FreeBSD does not), extract the `fonts` directory in
`font-awesome-a.b.c.zip` to a directory where your distribution usually
stores fonts. On FreeBSD it would be `/usr/local/share/fonts/FontAwesome`.
Then type:
```
cd /usr/local/share/fonts/FontAwesome
mkfontscale
mkfontdir
```

## Installation instructions

For those who read the warnings above, proceed with these steps:

0. **Make a backup of your $HOME** (optional, but you never know!)
1. Clone the project.
2. Move the project files to `~/.xmonad`.
3. When you have FreeBSD, you can directly execute the script
   `~/.xmonad/setup.sh`. If not you will need
   to check the dependencies by yourself and comment out the
   `pkg info` check at the beginning of the script.
4. Add this line (or similar) to your `sudo` configuration: `myuser ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /sbin/shutdown`.
5. Optional: install the keyboard layout.

## Host-specific fine tuning

You can use the directory `~/.xmonad/conf` to make fine tuning for hosts.
Xmonad will look for a configuration there that is named
`~/.xmonad/conf/HOSTNAME.hs`.

### Workspaces and Layouts

The workspaces mentioned here have all 3 letters to keep the `xmobar` workspace
bar short. They are also merged with their number as prefix when shown in the
dock.  You can use the names which are already defined to specify a certain
workspace layout.

The `com` layout is best used with `pidgin` and `claws-mail`. `gfx` is
adjusted for `gimp` other applications like `darktable` will be simply shown
full-screen there. Take a look at the layout definitions and don't forget
to modify them, especially when changing their names.

### Example

This configuration will make 9 desktops with the given names. It will take
`em0` as the interface to watch network load and on startup it will also
start firefox and claws-mail. It will also set the wallpaper with the
given arguments (just so you can see how to pass arguments).

```
HostConfiguration {
	locale = "de",
        workspaceNames = [ "web","com","dev","gfx","ofc","","","",""],
        terminal = "urxvt",
        netInterfaceName = "em0",
        autostartPrograms = [
		("hsetroot",["-fill","~/.wallpapers/liquid-1600x1200.jpg"]),
                ("firefox",[]),
                ("claws-mail",[])
                ]
        }
```

**Be careful here,** this has to be a valid Haskell record syntax (instance of
Read/Show) or it will be safely skipped and the defaults will be used.

#### Default host-specific configuration

It looks like this:
```
defaultHostConfiguration = HostConfiguration {
	locale = "en",
        workspaceNames = ["web","com","dev","gfx","ofc","","","",""],
        terminal = "urxvt",
        netInterfaceName = "re0",
        autostartPrograms = []
        }
```

You don't need to make a file for this, it is implied, if nothing has been
found or if an error reading your configuration occurs.

## Features and gotchas

The configuration is fully managed in [git](http://git-scm.com).

All the configurations included are softlinks. It means that you can update
them and you implicitly update the checked out project. This also implies
that it might be a good idea to make yourself a fork of this project. But
you can also merge in changes from my repository, but don't complain, if
something breaks for you. You should consider this project my private
playground.

## German hacker's keyboard layout

Because the layout file is very concise, I'll explain shortly what hides
inside. You can decide then, whether you like it or not.

**It is only for German keyboards!**

Here the features:

* US QWERTY setting (basically *it is* a US keyboard then)
* rich keyboard variant with many default key combos
	that exist in US (international) layouts
* Capslock and Escape swap (for vim)
* 'at' and 'euro' symbols back at their place
* Umlauts are accessible through *AltGr* plus the key where they are on the
	German keyboard. *Shift* will make them caps.
* Compose key on the "<>|" key next to left shift.
* `dead_greek` keyboard symbol on *AltGr*+g and *AltGr*+Shift+m
	to enable greek alphabet with default compositions
* some important dead keys have been swapped with their higher level siblings
	(e.g. `asciicircum`, `asciitilde`, `grave`)
* `dead_acute` on level 4 key `q` (think: "aQute")
* `dead_diaeresis` and `degree` on level 3 & 4 key `*`
* missing french quotation marks (because of umlauts) can be all composed
